all right so this is my review of the
xps 17
and xps 15. now i went into this video
with the intent
of choosing one of these devices as my
personal windows laptop this year like i
wanted to use one of these new xps
devices
as my actual regular daily laptop
so i'm gonna be i mean a lot of the
conversation that we're gonna be having
here is
from my perspective of what i would want
in a laptop all right
so uh just right off the rip these
devices
are heavier than you might think or they
might be heavier than you think
that's probably a better way to put it
the xps 15
this is the same weight as last year's
model they both come in at four to four
point five pounds depending on how you
configure them
but this is a smaller machine so it's
just dense
and same thing goes for the xps 17. this
machine can be equipped with a vapor
chamber if you have like the higher end
configurations
and that unit like that vapor chamber
configuration
and the 4k panel configuration just adds
weight
to this system so keep in mind if you
want something that's like a really
light laptop
just look at the numbers of these things
and compared to other stuff you might be
interested in
now i really like the design aesthetic
of the xps devices this year i really
like that whole
angled look that they have to these
machines i like the exterior i also
really like the carbon fiber
interior now this material i didn't
notice this in the
kind of first look i had on these
devices but this is a different
resin or different finish than the
previous carbon fiber i actually like
this stuff better
it's still soft to the touch and nice to
use and comfortable to type on
but it's not as sticky like it doesn't
feel as tacky as the old stuff i used
tacky like not as in like
gaudy or ugly but like like tacky as in
like gummy
this feels like a smoother resin and i
like it a lot and it's also less prone
to
fingerprints like one of the things that
i didn't like about older xps devices
like how easily fingerprints appeared
on the palm rest and all over the carbon
fiber material this feels like a better
material to me
i also really like their screens like
there's everything about them the
brightness the color accuracy the aspect
ratio
these screens both on the 17 and 15 look
fantastic i don't just mean like the
thin bezels and just
how clean and aesthetically beautiful it
looks i mean the actual panel itself
is on point now i've seen both the 4k
and the 1080p panels and in my opinion
it's not worth getting the 4k panels
these are both 4k units uh both the
review units and the engineering samples
i had
were also 4k units but it's a 400
upgrade over the 1080p panel
and on a screen size that's 17 or 15
inches
it's really hard to appreciate a 4k
panel now here's the thing
dell's website is a little bit confusing
in order to get the configuration that
gets better video cards while still
using that 1080p panel you have to go
into the work
configurations instead of the ones for
home which is a little bit weird
the other thing i noticed is that the
ghosting on these screens
are still present it's not something
that's a big deal but if you're someone
that's used to
like desktop monitors that have fast
response times
or fast refresh rates these are 60 hertz
panels with
relatively slow response times you won't
really notice it outside of gaming
though
the aspect ratio is 16x10 i think most
people will appreciate that
you just get more vertical space right
you see more comments when you're
scrolling through stuff you
have more vertical real estate for like
premiere xl whatever it is
16 by 10 is money the speakers i've done
uh speaker test so i'm not going to do
it again but they sound good when you
crank up the volume
the bass is very vibratory you feel it
throughout the whole keyboard
uh the solution to that is don't listen
to music as loud
but it is a it is something that's
present if you're someone that
types with music cranking it's very
buzzy as you're going uh okay let's talk
about the keyboard and trackpad
so this is where things get
conversational
i like the keyboard this is a keyboard
that i think most people will like
the lack of a number pad seems to bother
people based on the comments
now personally i think that if they had
put a numerical pad on these keyboards
it would have really hurt
the design aesthetic of this thing like
i mean they could have there's obviously
room to fit a number pad on a 17-inch
device like this
but if they'd put it in it just wouldn't
look as symmetrical and it wouldn't be
an xps device so i
i feel like it was a purposeful design
choice to emit that but
if you need a number pad you can just
connect something over usb
now the trackpad okay we need to talk
about this
the engineering samples that i had i had
a 17 and a 15
both had great track pads then i got two
retail units i got an xps 15 retail unit
and xps 17 retail unit and on both of
these devices
the trackpad has a bit of a wobble it's
definitely more pronounced and more
annoying
on the xps 15 unit and based on what
i've read from the emails and
comments sections of my previous videos
this is a thing
this is an issue that is appearing not
infrequently and i think it's just a
quality control thing from dell
this shouldn't be an issue right this
shouldn't be something that the
users have to put up with from what i've
read though it can be fixed you can
either put a piece of tape
underneath or tighten the screw but i
mean like on a device that is this
expensive
and this premium from a company like
dell this really should not be
a thing at all so if you do get one you
can either return it and get it replaced
or if you want to try doing the
electrical tape thing you can probably
look it up on the internet
but it's just weird because the two
engineering samples i had had
perfect track pads like i'll just do
this here so you
don't think i'm going crazy this is the
15.
this machine like
why am i even doing this it's not like
you guys can see it but okay maybe you
can so the wobble
do you hear that sound versus this
right this is a rock solid machine like
a rock solid track
pad this has that weird wobble
now before i get into the performance we
need to preface this conversation with
like these are not two inch thick gaming
laptops these aren't gaming laptops at
all and i feel like because they're
equipped with
nvidia cards that are capable of gaming
some people expect these to have gaming
level performance
they don't all right the 15-inch one
has better thermal performance than the
previous year's model
it's not great i would consider it to be
acceptable see i've been very critical
of xps 15 over the past two or three
years because their their thermals just
weren't
up to snuff this has improved
but it's not great the xps 17
with its vapor chamber i expected this
to be miraculously awesome like i
thought
when i did my preview of it that this
would just blow my socks off when i
actually got the
retail unit it's good but it's also
imperfect it's not like two inch thick
gaming laptop perfect what i think dell
likes to do
is that they let their systems turbo up
really fast
to a really high clock speed but then
they bring it down really aggressively
so these temperatures will spike to like
99 degrees and then it'll drop back down
to like
85 and this is different from let's say
something like a razer blade 15.
that machine doesn't spike up in
temperature it has a more
flat temperature profile but it also
doesn't turbo
as aggressively so i feel like a razer
blade 15 is way better for gaming
because
when you're playing games both your cpu
and gpu are stressed for a very long
period of time so only like four or five
hours if you're playing games
but for something like this an xps
device these are geared more for
just spikier workflows right now in
terms of music production i know that a
lot of people have shied away from xps
devices in the past because of latency
issues
i ran latency monitor on it just to see
what was going on on both these machines
they both seem fine like i ran that test
for over an hour and i never saw some
heavy latency spikes
i don't know if that's like enough
information for you guys though i'm not
a producer but based on my limited
testing these don't seem to have any
latency issues
like previous year's models now these
also do not seem to have
undervolting i went around the bios just
to look around to see if there's
something that i could enable to allow
it
they do not have undervolting like
previous year's models either
okay so here's the deal at the beginning
of this video i said i would
choose one right this was a harder
choice for me than i
thought it would be i originally thought
it would be the 17
for sure right i wanted the performance
but this is a big machine it's just
heavier than i thought it would be it's
just more cumbersome than i thought it'd
be it doesn't even fit into my regular
backpack normally i have to
change backpacks because of this device
um
i'm gonna go with it though i feel like
the benefits that this gives
are stuff that i like it's just it
doesn't come without a cost
the weight for one and it's just not as
portable of a package as i'd like my
laptop to be but the overall experience
on the xps 17
is great now the battery life on these
two machines
they're similar i thought the 17 would
run out quicker but it's got a slightly
bigger battery
97 watt hours versus 86 and i'm getting
seven hours of battery life on both and
this is with the
higher resolution panel so it's got
pretty good battery management
so that's it that's my xps 17 and 15
review
i know a lot of people if you're
interested in buying one you're gonna be
drawn to the 17 because
it's not that much more expensive than
the 50. i think it's only 100 more on
the base model you just get a lot more
material a lot more device uh but just
be
be aware of the weights be aware of the
numbers just to make sure it fits in
your
in your lifestyle okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs if you liked
it
subs if you loved it i'll see you guys
next time
you